And then you've been asked to write an article about your mother's brother, yeah?
Yes, he was widely travelled.
What was his name?
His name was Rudolph Stubble, but he didn't like the name Rudolph.
I think people made fun of it.
So he called himself Dick, which is short for Richard,
which is my name.
So what happened with him was he grew up in Pontacama and then he was sent off to
London to be educated. I don't know the story behind that.
He qualified as a doctor and went off to the South Pacific, to Fiji, to become a district
medical officer. He travelled throughout the Middle East. He came back to this country.
He did his FRCS in Edinburgh.
Then did general practice in London.
And when the war broke out, he joined up and he served in North Africa, where he was captured
at the siege of Tobruk. He escaped from prisoner of war camp and nearly made it
to Switzerland, but was captured on the border.
He escaped again and was caught. And when Italy surrendered in 1943,
he wasn't in the southern part of Italy, he was in the northern part where the Germans were,
and they were taking him to prisoner of war camp somewhere and he escaped from that.
And he could have made it back to Allied lines, but he heard that the partisans in the Yugoslav
mountains needed medical help. So he went there and ran field hospitals and the Germans bombed
one of them and he was caught in a blast and suffered injuries from which he died.
We've got letters in the files to describe what sort of person he was and how he looked after the
partisans. So you wrote an article about this for Bimmer? Yes, I did. What was the origin? How did
you come to write the article? I had a letter from a social historian in Oxford who had, he'd put an
advert in the Jewish Chronicle. He was doing research into what medical officers did in the war
and a relative of mine in London got hold of him and put him in touch with my aunt who lived in
Bournemouth, that was the widow of my father's younger brother, and from there he got put in
touch with me. So you helped fill in that part of the story? Yes, yes. And also produced the article as well? That's right.